# App Overview

This document provides an overview of the App including critical information and import considerations when applying it to your Nautobot environment.

This Nautobot app facilitates integration and data synchronization between various "source of truth" (SoT) systems, with Nautobot acting as a central clearinghouse for data - a Single Source of Truth, if you will.

!!! note
    Throughout this documentation, the terms "app" and "plugin" will be used interchangeably.

## Description

The Nautobot SSoT app builds atop the [DiffSync](https://github.com/networktocode/diffsync) Python library and Nautobot's Jobs feature. This enables the rapid development and integration of Jobs that can be run within Nautobot to pull data from other systems ("Data Sources") into Nautobot and/or push data from Nautobot into other systems ("Data Targets") as desired. Key features include the following:

* A dashboard UI lists all registered Data Sources and Data Targets and provides a summary of the synchronization history.
* The outcome of executing of a data synchronization Job is automatically saved to Nautobot's database for later review.
* Detailed logging output generated by DiffSync is automatically captured and saved to the database as well.

## Audience (User Personas) - Who should use this App?

* Nautobot app developers looking to sync data from an outside source into Nautobot and/or vice-versa.

## Authors and Maintainers

!!! warning "Developer Note - Remove Me!"
    Add the team and/or the main individuals maintaining this project. Include historical maintainers as well.

## Nautobot Features Used

!!! warning "Developer Note - Remove Me!"
    What is shown today in the Installed Apps page in Nautobot. What parts of Nautobot does it interact with, what does it add etc. ?

### Extras

!!! warning "Developer Note - Remove Me!"
    Custom Fields - things like which CFs are created by this app?
    Jobs - are jobs, if so, which ones, installed by this app?
